Hey, what's up? I want to talk about the
argument that AI is a bubble. And I
specifically want to address the claim
that it's kind of like the dot one. And
basically, it's going to crash just like
the dot one. And there are a couple of
reasons why I don't think this is true.
Uh the second one is an actual argument
reason, but the more important one is
around the definition of what a bubble
is. So people like my friend Marcus
Hutchkins are saying yes AI is a bubble
just like the dot crash and yes it can
continue into the future just like.com
did just like the internet did the
internet continued and he's like look
we're talking we're having this
conversation on linkedin.com so that
proves a bubble could happen and burst
and then continue on
And that is fundamentally, I think,
misunderstanding what we're actually
talking about with a bubble. What is the
purpose of using the word bubble? Why
not say over inflation? Why not say
overhype? Why not say too much hype? Why
not say overheated? Right? There are
already terms for these like economic
terms for something that expands and
contracts. Inflammation, overheating,
overhyped, right? Those are all things I
agree with those things. Nothing wrong
with those. Those sound amazing.
If you want to use the word bubble, you
have to think about the defining
characteristic of a bubble. Bubbles pop.
This is the whole reason people use the
term is because it's interesting because
is it going to pop? That is the
fundamental question. Is it going to
pop? So what popped in the.com burst?
It was not the internet. The claim being
made, the false claim was not that the
internet is awesome. People were not
investing in the internet. They were
investing in a false idea that taking
their mid business, which wasn't that
impressive. Just giving it a.com
and going online was going to solve
their problems. It was going to solve
everything. It was going to fix their
business fundamentals. it was going to
make them rich and famous. That was the
bubble. That was the thing that popped.
Now, let's ask the question. Does anyone
believe
after that pop
that
taking your business online and getting
a dot address
would make you successful? Does anyone
believe that? No, they don't believe
that because it popped. It popped,
which means nobody believes it anymore.
Looking back, everyone realizes it was
foolish.
The other thing is in nature, have you
ever seen any dead bubbles? Where can
you go find like the carcasses of X
bubbles? You don't find them. There
aren't any. The the whole point of a
bubble is that it disappears after it
pops. Okay? So you can't say, you know,
the.com crash was the internet and the
internet continued, therefore the bubble
like blew up, but it still exists. No,
that's because you're looking at the
wrong thing. So the question is, what is
the thing for AI? What is the actual
argument? Now, some will say, well, the
argument is, you know, just the same
as.com.
If you just have a chatbot
and you, you know, you go live with your
chatbot, the whole business is saved.
Well, anyone who believed that has kind
of like already lost out. Like that
whole mentality kind of went away in
2023,
maybe part of 2024, maybe some
stragglers still exist, but that's not
the fundamental argument. That's not
what the argument that's being made by
pro-AI people like myself. I'll tell you
what the pro-AI argument is. This tech
is foundational. It's fundamental. It's
going to change business drastically,
which will lead to an impact, a massive
impact, a remaking of the economy
because the economy is largely based on
labor and cognitive labor, knowledge
work, right?
So, this impact of this technology will
be massive. It'll change business. It'll
change the economy and change how we
think about valuing ourselves as humans
doing knowledge work.
That is the claim being made. Okay? That
is the thing that is subject to is it a
bubble or not,
right? Somebody like Marcus Hutchkins
does not believe that. He believes it is
autocomplete, which is kind of the
opposite of the argument that I'm
making. Um, and Gary Marcus also agrees
with him. basically it's like this whole
thing is overblown and it's just uh kind
of complete trash.
So
that is the argument we need to be
having. Okay, what what exactly is the
thing that you believe is false
that will completely dissipate and it
will become obvious that it was silly
and stupid in the future looking
backwards. That is the thing you have to
isolate to be able to have this argument
correctly in my opinion. Otherwise,
you'll just be arguing about
definitions.
See you in the next one.